---
layout: post
title: "June 14 2021"
date: 2021-06-14 12:00:00 -0000
categories: today-i-learned tutorial react jekyll
---

# June 14, 2021

### React - Jekyll Integration

Recently I've been coding React components on Codepen, and I want to incorporate some of these components into this blog. So how does one integrate React and Jekyll? 

I'm following [this tutorial](https://medium.com/@allizadrozny/using-webpack-and-react-with-jekyll-cfe137f8a2cc), which is superb.

1. Make sure you have [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/), [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/), and [npm](https://nodejs.org/en/knowledge/getting-started/npm/what-is-npm/) or Node's package manager.
2. Make sure a **package.json** file exists in root directory. By running `nmp init` in the root, npm will generate a populated **package.json** file. Just go through the prompts.
3. Add a **webpack/** directory to root. Touch an **entry.js** file. IMPORTANT: This folder is for development only. It will not go in **src/**.
4. Is there any JS files in **assets/**? Remove the files. But keep the JS folder, if it's there.
5. Create **webpack.config.js** in root. I copy the file contents from [Zadrozny](https://medium.com/@allizadrozny/using-webpack-and-react-with-jekyll-cfe137f8a2cc). I also specify `mode: development` in the file.
6. Definitely remember to add **node_modules/** to **.gitignore**. And add `exclude: ['node_modules']` to **config.yml**.
7. Include **/assets/javascripts/bundle.js** in **_layouts/default.html**.<br>
`<script type="text/javascript" src="/assets/javascripts/bundle.js" charset="utf-8"></script>`
8. Install dependencies:<br> `$ npm install webpack babel-core babel-loader babel-preset-es2015 babel-preset-react react react-addons-update react-dom --save-dev`<br>
The `save-dev` flag will write the packages to **package.json**.
9. Test by adding `console.log("Hello world!")` to **entry.js**.
10. Build the site. Run `$ npx webpack --config webpack.config.js` to generate the new **bundle.js** from **entry.js**. Next run `$ bundle exec jekyll build` to build site.
11. Create a React Component. First, make a **components/** folder inside the webpack directory and create a file for the React Component.
12. Mount the component in **default.html** or **home.html** or whatever.
13. 



