---
layout: post
title:  "Lists"
date:   2020-11-10 23:00:00 -0600
categories: lists
---

_I've got a little list..._ Ko-Ko by way of Wm. Gass

I'm constantly composing little lists. Indeed, list-making may be my only natural talent.

For those who are discouraged, a sturdy list remains the best succor. _Dum spiro spero!_ What do you desire? And can you have it now? No? Then merely add what you want to this list and it shall be guarded against your forgetfulness, which threatens worse than your dispossession of it. Forgetting what we want hurts more than not having it, and anyway, all hurts are fires, according to Gass. 

Speaking of Gass, The essay _I've Got a Little List_ is collected in _Tests of Time: Essays_, published 2002. Here are a few prose excerpts to whet the appetite:

1. "Nowadays, despite our equalitarian and plural society (or perhaps because of it), we are obsessed by hierarchies in the form of lists."
2. "These orders, unlike one's laundry list, are imaginary. The choices set down are like the interpretations of ink blots, only revelatory of their maker. But if the comforts are mere enumeration are shallow and illusory, so are most comforts."
3. "Lists are juxtapositions, and exhibit many of the qualities of collage. The names which appear on them lack their normal syntactical companions. Most lists are terse, minimal, bald; they are reminders, commands, aspirations."
4. "Some of us, this very moment, unbeknownst, are being dropped from an invitation list."
5. "If I am making an action into a list, I shall have to divide it the way the flight of Zeno's arrow was divided, the way a camera would record it, because a camera is a list maker, the film nothing but a series of shots in the order of their snapping."

Now I shall make a little list. Consider the word _algorithm_, which by its lonesome lacks much in the way of meaning (save what meaning you, the reader, bring to it). But place that term inside the house wherein _network_, _database_, _data structure_, and _operating system_ already reside and there emerges a new significance. Within computer science, there are many (sub)fields of study ("... obsessed by hierarchies in the form of lists") and these are only a few.

Try out this list for size: 
* _functional_ 
* _scripting_ 
* _object-oriented_ 

Like a good detective, tell me what's missing: 
* _automata_ 
* _computability_ 
* _computational complexity_

Or this: 
* _stack_ 
* _queue_ 
* _heap_ 
* _hash table_ 
* _graph_

And how many book lists does one lifetime permit? I push against this limit: 

* _Combinatorial Optimization: Algorithms and Complexity_ (with Kenneth Steiglitz). Prentice-Hall, 1982.
* _Computational Complexity_. Addison Wesley, 1994.
* _Algorithms_ (coauthored with Sanjoy Dasgupta and Umesh Vazirani). McGraw-Hill, September 2008.

So many book to read, problems to solve, subjects to learn, languages to master, programs to code, solutions to build, etc, etc, etc... 

Over the next [few months? years? some indefinite yet generous span of time] I plan to cross all of them off my list.

W.